We've talked a bit about accountants in this course
and getting an accountant to help you with your taxes.
A financial advisor is different, though.
A financial advisor
makes money by charging you about 1 percent
of your net worth every single year, okay?
And I know that sounds like a lot
and it is.
And I only recommend considering hiring a
financial advisor if you don't have any
time at all to manage your money,
or if your tax situation is so complicated
and you have so much money,
which is a high-class problem I guess,
and you have so much money that a financial advisor
can justify your justify your annual 1 percent fee
by getting you excellent tax deductions, etc.
Okay?
And for most of us, hiring an accountant to do
our taxes once per year is good enough,
and it's important to have a relationship
with a great accountant so you can call him every year
or every now and then, and
before making a big investment,
ask him about it, and they might tell you,
wait a second,
put that investment in a tax shelter first
because it's almost impossible to move something
into a tax shelter after you've made the investment.
And they can also help you out by telling you
not to do that investment.
Right?
They have good advice.
Okay, so if you do decide to hire or consider
hiring a financial advisor,
again, not an accountant, but a financial advisor,
please ask them the following 11 questions
before deciding to hire a financial advisor.
And make sure you're very comfortable, please,
with their responses to every single one
of these 11 questions, okay?
Number 1:
We want to make sure that their performance
was much better than the stock market returns
were in those years, which were sharply negative.
Those were awful years.
And if the advisor was only down single digits in
those two awful years, meaning '08 and '01,
that's okay, as they did a relatively good job of
preserving their clients' capital, okay?
Question number 2 to ask a financial advisor:
What do they charge annually?
Again, we know it's usually about 1 percent of your assets,
okay?
But ask them what their real fee is,
including transactions, okay?
Or commission fees, okay?
Because sometimes, they'll make you buy and sell stuff
so they can make commissions.
And if the commission fee is high,
then that's an issue.
Okay.
Question number 3:
This one is crucial.
Please ask if they get any commissions at all
on any of the financial products that they have
ever sold to their clients, okay?
And it's a bit redundant, but it's important
to reinforce this a bit.
If the answer is yes, then understand that they
might be biased into making you trade more than
you should in your account, which is not good,
as the fees really hurt us in the long run.
Okay, number 4.
Ask if the firm that they work for makes them only
sell financial products from that particular firm.
And if so, this is a big issue,
as their hands are basically tied,
and they can only recommend one company's
financial products, which is not ideal, okay?
It's almost unethical, okay?
Just know going in, okay?
Number 5:
Is there a redemption fee, if you decide,
to stop using them as your financial advisor?
And if it's above 1 percent,
then this is an issue, of course.
Six:
What percent of their net worth
is in financial products that they sold or
recommend to their clients?
And it should be over 50 percent of their net worth,
not including their house.
Number 7:
If they manage a fund or investments,
what percent of their net worth and the net worth of
their parents or relatives are in that fund
or in those investments?
And we want this one to be above 10 percent, okay?
And that goes for anything you sell in finance
or buy in finance.
If you're a finance salesperson,
always think to yourself,
would I get my parents to buy this?
And if you don't feel comfortable with that,
then don't sell the product, okay?
Off topic, sorry.
Number 8:
What percent of their client's net worth are liquid
and can be redeemed immediately?
And we want this to be 25 percent or more, okay?
Number 9:
Is there a government database that they registered at,
if applicable, right?
Obviously, you Google them.
Or, did you find anything that makes really uncomfortable
about them when you Googled their name?
Okay, 10:
What certifications do they have?
Like a CFA or a government test that they have to take
in your country, okay?
In the United States there are a bunch of exams,
the Series 3, 63, 7, etc.
Every country's different, okay.
And it's not crucial that they have professional
designations, right?
But if they must take exams in your country in order
to be a certified financial analyst,
make sure that they have those certifications.
And number 11, this one's big, this is important.
And this should go with any person you're
about to hire, or any investment you're about to make.
Ask them to provide you a list of 10 client names
for you to speak with.
And if they don't provide them, then that's a red flag.